# RobustSSC_forecasting

A robust time series framework for forecasting local suspended sediment concentrations in coastal areas

Forecasting of suspended sediment concentrations (SSCs) is very important for the emergency management of mariculture and waterway siltation in coastal engineering. Significant efforts have been devoted to clarify the physical processes for the establishment of process-based models, but no universally applicable models have been developed due to the complex and stochastic movements of sediments. In this paper, we establish a new statistical learning framework for the prediction of SSCs using historical SSC data only, which gets rid of the dependence of traditional physical models on hydrodynamic data, thus significantly reduces the budget of field study by reducing the observation items(i.e., hydrodynamics). The physical basis of this method only relying on SSC is that the periodic signals of different driving mechanisms were extracted from the historical data of SSC. To achieve the single-parameter(SSC) modelling, a decomposition-ensemble method is proposed in which the SSC time series is firstly decomposed into subSSCs with various periodicities; and then the subSSCs are modelled respectively;finally, the modelled subSSCs are ensembled for the finally prediction. During the subSSC modeling, the temporal auto-correlation in the time series is used for augmented regression; and a new lncosh loss function is embedded in ridge regression to handle the outliers in data. A case study using the field SSC data from the Yellow River Delta in China realizes multi-step (6-hour ahead) forecasting with  mean relative errors of 5.80 \% to 9.44 \%. Physical reasons for the improved performance are: (1) the single-parameter modelling avoids introducing more measurement errors of hydrodynamics; (2) the outliers in the data are effectively excluded. The proposed framework can be extended to forecast signals that are superposed by components with various timescales which are common in nature.

Zhang, Shaotong, Jinran Wu, You-Gan Wang, Dong-Sheng Jeng, and Guangxue Li. "A physics-informed statistical learning framework for forecasting local suspended sediment concentrations in marine environment." Water Research 218 (2022): 118518.
